
North American Free Trade Agreement 
Preamble 
Part One: General Part 
Chapter One:
Objectives 
Chapter Two:
General Definitions 
Part Two: Trade in Goods 
Chapter Three:
National Treatment and Market Access for Goods 
Chapter Four:
Rules of Origin 
Chapter Five:
Customs Procedures 
Chapter Six:
Energy and Basic Petrochemicals 
Chapter Seven:
Agriculture and Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measure
s 
Chapter Eight:
Emergency Action: Safeguards 
Part Three: Technical Barriers to Trade 
Chapter Nine:
Standards-Related Measures 
Part Four: Government Procurement 
Chapter Ten:
Government Procurement 
Part Five: Investment, Services and Related Matters
Chapter Eleven:
Investment 
Chapter Twelve:
Cross-Border Trade in Services 
Chapter Thirteen:
Telecommunications 
Chapter Fourteen:
Financial Services 
Chapter Fifteen:
Competition Policy, Monopolies and State Enterpris
es 
Chapter Sixteen:
Temporary Entry of Business Persons 
Part Six:  
Chapter Seventeen:
Intellectual Property 
Part Seven: Administrative and Institutional Provis
ions 
Chapter Eighteen:
Publication, Notification and Administration of La
ws 
Chapter Nineteen:
Review and Dispute Settlement in Antidumping 
Chapter Twenty:
Institutional Arrangements and Dispute Settlement 
Procedures  
Part Eight: Other Provisions 
Chapter Twenty-One:
Exceptions 
Chapter Twenty-Two:
Final Provisions 
Preamble 
The Government of Canada, the Government of the Uni
ted Mexican States and the Government of the 
United States of America, resolved to: 
•
     STRENGTHEN the special bonds of friendship and coo
peration among their nations;  
•
     CONTRIBUTE  to  the  harmonious  development  and  expan
sion  of  world  trade  and  provide  a 
catalyst to broader international cooperation;  
•
     CREATE  an  expanded  and  secure  market  for  the  goods
  and  services  produced  in  their 
territories;  
•
     REDUCE distortions to trade;  
•
     ESTABLISH clear and mutually advantageous rules go
verning their trade;  
•
     ENSURE a predictable commercial framework for busi
ness planning and investment;  
•
     BUILD  on  their  respective  rights  and  obligations  u
nder  the 
General  Agreement  on  Tariffs  and 
Trade
 and other multilateral and bilateral instruments o
f cooperation;  
•
     ENHANCE the competitiveness of their firms in glob
al markets;  
•
     FOSTER  creativity  and  innovation,  and  promote  trad
e  in  goods  and  services  that  are  the 
subject of intellectual property rights;  
•
     CREATE  new  employment  opportunities  and  improve  wo
rking  conditions  and  living  standards 
in their respective territories;  
•
     UNDERTAKE each of the preceding in a manner consis
tent with environmental protection and 
conservation;  
•
     PRESERVE their flexibility to safeguard the public
 welfare;  
•
     PROMOTE sustainable development;  
•
     STRENGTHEN the development and enforcement of envi
ronmental laws and regulations; and  
•
     PROTECT, enhance and enforce basic workers' rights
;  
HAVE AGREED as follows 
Part 
One 
General Part 
Chapter 
One 
Objectives 
Article 101: Establishment of the Free Trade Area 
The  Parties  to  this  Agreement,  consistent  with  Arti
cle  XXIV  of  the 
General  Agreement  on  Tariffs  and 
Trade
, hereby establish a free trade area. 
Article 102: Objectives 
1.    The  objectives  of  this  Agreement,  as  elaborated 
more  specifically  through  its  principles  and 
rules, including national treatment, most-favored-n
ation treatment and transparency, are to:  
a.    eliminate  barriers  to  trade  in,  and  facilitate  t
he  cross-border  movement  of,  goods  and 
services between the territories of the Parties;  
b.    promote conditions of fair competition in the fr
ee trade area;  
c.    increase substantially investment opportunities 
in the territories of the Parties;  
d.    provide  adequate  and  effective  protection  and  en
forcement  of  intellectual  property 
rights in each Party's territory;  
e.    create  effective  procedures  for  the  implementati
on  and  application  of  this  Agreement, 
for its joint administration and for the resolution
 of disputes; and  
f.     establish  a  framework  for  further  trilateral,  re
gional  and  multilateral  cooperation  to 
expand and enhance the benefits of this Agreement. 
2.    The  Parties  shall  interpret  and  apply  the  provis
ions  of  this  Agreement  in  the  light  of  its 
objectives set out in paragraph 1 and in accordance
 with applicable rules of international law.  
Article 103: Relation to Other Agreements 
1.    The  Parties  affirm  their  existing  rights  and  obl
igations  with  respect  to  each  other  under  the 
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
 and other agreements to which such Parties are par
ty.  
2.    In  the  event  of  any  inconsistency  between  this  A
greement  and  such  other  agreements,  this 
Agreement shall prevail to the extent of the incons
istency, except as otherwise provided in this 
Agreement.  
Article 104: Relation to Environmental and Conserva
tion Agreements 
1.    In the event of any inconsistency between this A
greement and the specific trade obligations set 
out in:  
a.    the 
Convention on International Trade in Endangered Spe
cies of Wild Fauna and Flora
, 
done at Washington, March 3, 1973, as amended June 
22, 1979,  
b.    the 
Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Oz
one Layer
, done at Montreal, 
September 16, 1987, as amended June 29, 1990,  
c.    the 
Basel  Convention  on  the  Control  of  Transboundary  Mo
vements  of  Hazardous 
Wastes  and  Their  Disposal
,  done  at  Basel,  March  22,  1989,  on  its  entry  into 
force  for 
Canada, Mexico and the United States, or  
d.    the agreements set out in Annex 104.1,  
such  obligations  shall  prevail  to  the  extent  of  the
  inconsistency,  provided  that  where  a  Party  has  a 
choice among equally effective and reasonably avail
able means of complying with such obligations, the 
Party chooses the alternative that is the least inc
onsistent with the other provisions of this Agreeme
nt. 
2.    The  Parties  may  agree  in  writing  to  modify  Annex
  104.1  to  include  any  amendment  to  an 
agreement referred to in paragraph 1, and any other
 environmental or conservation agreement.  
Article 105: Extent of Obligations 
The Parties shall ensure that all necessary measure
s are taken in order to give effect to the provisio
ns 
of this Agreement, including their observance, exce
pt as otherwise provided in this Agreement, by stat
e 
and provincial governments. 
Annex 104.1 
Bilateral and Other Environmental and Conservation 
Agreements
1.    The 
Agreement Between the Government of Canada and the 
Government of the United States 
of  America Concerning the Transboundary  Movement of
  Hazardous Waste
, signed  at Ottawa, 
October 28, 1986.  
2.    The 
Agreement  Between  the  United  States  of  America  and 
the  United  Mexican  States  on 
Cooperation for the Protection and Improvement of t
he Environment in the Border Area
, signed 
at La Paz, Baja California Sur, August 14, 1983.  
Chapter 
Two 
General Definitions 
Article 201: Definitions of General Application 
1. For purposes of this Agreement, unless otherwise
 specified: 
Commission
  means  the  Free  Trade  Commission  established  under 
Article  2001(1)  (The  Free  Trade 
Commission) ; 
Customs  Valuation  Code
  means  the 
Agreement  on  Implementation  of  Article  VII
of  the  General 
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
, including its interpretative notes; 
days
 means calendar days, including weekends and holida
ys; 
enterprise
  means  any  entity  constituted  or  organized  under  ap
plicable  law,  whether  or  not  for  profit, 
and  whether  privately-owned  or  governmentally-owned
,  including  any  corporation,  trust,  partnership, 
sole proprietorship, joint venture or other associa
tion; 
enterprise of a Party
 means an enterprise constituted or organized under
 the law of a Party; 
existing
 means in effect on the date of entry into force of
 this Agreement; 
Generally   Accepted   Accounting   Principles
   means   the   recognized   consensus   or   substantial 
authoritative  support  in  the  territory  of  a  Party  w
ith  respect  to  the  recording  of  revenues,  expenses,
costs,  assets  and  liabilities,  disclosure  of  inform
ation  and  preparation  of  financial  statements.  Thes
e 
standards may be  broad guidelines of general applic
ation as well as detailed standards, practices and 
procedures;  
goods  of  a  Party
  means  domestic  products  as  these  are  understood  in
  the 
General  Agreement  on 
Tariffs and Trade
 or such goods as the Parties may agree, and includ
es originating goods of that Party; 
Harmonized System
 (HS) means the 
Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding System
, and its 
legal notes and rules, as adopted and implemented b
y the Parties in their respective tariff laws; 
measure
 includes any law, regulation, procedure, requireme
nt or practice; 
national
  means  a  natural  person  who  is  a  citizen  or  permane
nt  resident  of  a  Party  and  any  other 
natural person referred to in Annex 201.1; 
originating
 means qualifying under the rules of origin set out
 in Chapter Four (Rules of Origin) ; 
person
 means a natural person or an enterprise;  
person of a Party
 means a national, or an enterprise of a Party;  
Secretariat
 means the Secretariat established under Article 20
02(1) (The Secretariat) ; 
state  enterprise
  means  an  enterprise  that  is  owned,  or  controlled  t
hrough  ownership  interests,  by  a 
Party; and 
territory
 means for a Party the territory of that Party as s
et out in Annex 201.1. 
2.  For  purposes  of  this  Agreement,  unless  otherwise
  specified,  a  reference  to  a  state  or  province 
includes local governments of that state or provinc
e. 
Annex 201.1 
Country-Specific Definitions 
For purposes of this Agreement, unless otherwise sp
ecified: 
national
 also includes: 
a.    with respect to Mexico, a national or  a citizen 
according to Articles 30 and  34, respectively, of 
the Mexican Constitution; and  
b.    with  respect  to  the  United  States,  "national  of 
the  United  States"  as  defined  in  the  existing 
provisions of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act
;  
territory
 means: 
a.    with  respect  to  Canada,  the  territory  to  which  i
ts  customs  laws  apply,  including  any  areas 
beyond the territorial seas of Canada within which,
 in accordance with international law and its 
domestic  law,  Canada  may  exercise  rights  with  respe
ct  to  the  seabed  and  subsoil  and  their 
natural resources;  
b.    with respect to Mexico,  
i. 
the states of the Federation and the Federal Dis
trict,  
ii. 
the islands, including the reefs and keys, in a
djacent seas,  
iii. 
the islands of Guadalupe and Revillagigedo sit
uated in the Pacific Ocean,  
iv. 
the continental shelf and the submarine shelf o
f such islands, keys and reefs,  
v. 
the  waters  of  the  territorial  seas,  in  accordanc
e  with  international  law,  and  its  interior 
maritime waters,  
vi. 
the space located above the national territory,
 in accordance with international law, and  
vii. 
any  areas  beyond  the  territorial  seas  of  Mexic
o  within  which,  in  accordance  with 
international law,  including  the 
United Nations Convention  on the Law of the Sea
, and 
its  domestic  law,  Mexico  may  exercise  rights  with  r
espect  to  the  seabed  and  subsoil 
and their natural resources; and  
c.    with respect to the United States,  
i. 
the  customs  territory  of  the  United  States,  whic
h  includes  the  50  states,  the  District  of 
Columbia and Puerto Rico,  
ii. 
the foreign trade zones located in the United S
tates and Puerto Rico, and  
iii. 
any  areas  beyond  the  territorial  seas  of  the  U
nited  States  within  which,  in  accordance 
with international law  and its domestic law,  the Un
ited States may exercise rights with 
respect to the seabed and subsoil and their natural
 resources.  
Chapter Three 
National Treatment and Market Access for Goods 
Article 300: Scope and Coverage
This Chapter applies to trade in goods of a Party, 
including:  
a.    goods covered by Annex 300-A (Trade and Investme
nt in the Automotive Sector),  
b.    goods covered by Annex 300-B (Textile and Appare
l Goods), and  
c.    goods covered by another Chapter in this Part,  
except as provided in such Annex or Chapter. 
Section A - National Treatment 
Article 301: National Treatment
1. Each Party shall accord national treatment to th
e goods of another Party in accordance with Article
 III 
of  the 
General  Agreement  on  Tariffs  and  Trade
  (GATT),  including  its  interpretative  notes,  and  to
  this 
end  Article  III  of  the  GATT  and  its  interpretative 
notes,  or  any  equivalent  provision  of  a  successor 
agreement to which all Parties are party, are incor
porated into and made part of this Agreement. 
2.  The  provisions  of  paragraph  1  regarding  national
  treatment  shall  mean,  with  respect  to  a  state  or 
province,  treatment  no  less  favorable  than  the  most
  favorable  treatment  accorded  by  such  state  or 
province  to  any  like,  directly  competitive  or  subst
itutable  goods,  as  the  case  may  be,  of  the  Party  of
which it forms a part. 
3. Paragraphs 1 and 2 do not apply to the measures 
set out in Annex 301.3. 
Section B - Tariffs 
Article 302: Tariff Elimination
1.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  this  Agreement, 
no  Party  may  increase  any  existing  customs  duty, 
or adopt any customs duty, on an originating good. 
2. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, 
each Party shall progressively eliminate its custom
s 
duties on originating goods in accordance with its 
Schedule to Annex 302.2. 
3.  On  the  request  of  any  Party,  the  Parties  shall  c
onsult  to  consider  accelerating  the  elimination  of 
customs duties set out in their Schedules. An agree
ment between two or more Parties to accelerate the 
elimination of a customs duty on a good shall super
sede any duty rate or staging category determined 
pursuant  to  their  Schedules  for  such  good  when  appr
oved  by  each  such  Party  in  accordance  with  its 
applicable legal procedures. 
4. Each Party may adopt or maintain import measures
 to allocate in-quota imports made pursuant to a 
tariff  rate  quota  set  out  in  Annex  302.2,  provided 
that  such  measures  do  not  have  trade  restrictive 
effects on imports additional to those caused by th
e imposition of the tariff rate quota. 
5.  On  written  request  of  any  Party,  a  Party  applyin
g  or  intending  to  apply  measures  pursuant  to 
paragraph 4 shall consult to review the administrat
ion of those measures. 
Article 303: Restriction on Drawback and Duty Defer
ral Programs
1. Except as otherwise provided in this Article, no
 Party may refund the amount of customs duties paid
, 
or  waive  or  reduce  the  amount  of  customs  duties  owe
d,  on  a  good  imported  into  its  territory,  on 
condition that the good is:  
a.    subsequently exported to the territory of anothe
r Party,  
b.    used  as  a  material  in  the  production  of  another 
good  that  is  subsequently  exported  to  the 
territory of another Party, or  
c.    substituted by an identical or similar good used
 as a material in the production of another good 
that is subsequently exported to the territory of a
nother Party,  
d.    in an amount that exceeds the lesser of the tota
l amount of customs duties paid or owed on the 
good  on  importation  into  its  territory  and  the  tota
l  amount  of  customs  duties  paid  to  another 
Party on the good that has been subsequently export
ed to the territory of that other Party.  
2. No Party may, on condition of export, refund, wa
ive or reduce:  
a.    an  antidumping  or  countervailing  duty  that  is  ap
plied  pursuant  to  a  Party's  domestic  law  and 
that  is  not  applied  inconsistently  with  Chapter  Nin
eteen  (Review  and  Dispute  Settlement  in 
Antidumping and Countervailing Duty Matters)  
b.    a  premium  offered  or  collected  on  an  imported  go
od  arising  out  of  any  tendering  system  in 
respect  of  the  administration  of  quantitative  impor
t  restrictions,  tariff  rate  quotas  or  tariff 
preference levels;  
c.    a fee applied pursuant to section 22 of the U.S.
Agricultural Adjustment Act
, subject to Chapter 
Seven (Agriculture and Sanitary and Phytosanitary M
easures) ; or  
d.    customs duties paid or owed on a good imported i
nto its territory and substituted by an identical 
or similar good that is subsequently exported to th
e territory of another Party.  
3.  Where  a  good  is  imported  into  the  territory  of  a
  Party  pursuant  to  a  duty  deferral  program  and  is 
subsequently  exported  to  the  territory  of  another  P
arty,  or  is  used  as  a  material  in  the  production  of
another  good  that  is  subsequently  exported  to  the  t
erritory  of  another  Party,  or  is  substituted  by  an 
identical  or  similar  good  used  as  a  material  in  the
  production  of  another  good  that  is  subsequently 
exported to the territory of another Party, the Par
ty from whose territory the good is exported:  
a.    shall  assess  the  customs  duties  as  if  the  export
ed  good  had  been  withdrawn  for  domestic 
consumption; and  
b.    may waive or reduce such customs duties to the e
xtent permitted under paragraph 1.  
4.  In  determining  the  amount  of  customs  duties  that
  may  be  refunded,  waived  or  reduced  pursuant  to 
paragraph  1  on  a  good  imported  into  its  territory, 
each  Party  shall  require  presentation  of  satisfacto
ry 
evidence  of  the  amount  of  customs  duties  paid  to  an
other  Party  on  the  good  that  has  been 
subsequently exported to the territory of that othe
r Party. 
5. Where satisfactory evidence of the customs dutie
s paid to the Party to which a good is subsequently
exported under a duty deferral program described in
 paragraph 3 is not presented within 60 days after 
the date of exportation, the Party from whose terri
tory the good was exported:  
a.    shall  collect  customs  duties  as  if  the  exported 
good  had  been  withdrawn  for  domestic 
consumption; and  
b.    may  refund  such  customs  duties  to  the  extent  per
mitted  under  paragraph  1  on  the  timely 
presentation of such evidence under its laws and re
gulations.  
6. This Article does not apply to:  
a.    a good entered under bond for transportation and
 exportation to the territory of another Party;  
b.    a  good  exported  to  the  territory  of  another  Part
y  in  the  same  condition  as  when  imported  into 
the  territory  of  the  Party  from  which  the  good  was 
exported  (processes  such  as  testing, 
cleaning,  repacking  or  inspecting  the  good,  or  pres
erving  it  in  its  same  condition,  shall  not  be 
considered  to  change  a  good's  condition).  Except  as
  provided  in  Annex  703.2,  Section  A
, 
paragraph  12,  where  such  a  good  has  been  commingled
  with  fungible  goods  and  exported  in 
the  same  condition,  its  origin  for  purposes  of  this
  subparagraph  may  be  determined  on  the 
basis  of  the  inventory  methods  provided  for  in  the 
Uniform  Regulations  established  under 
Article 511 (Uniform Regulations) ;  
c.    a good imported into the territory of a Party th
at is deemed to be exported from its territory, or 
used  as  a  material  in  the  production  of  another  goo
d  that  is  deemed  to  be  exported  to  the 
territory of another Party, or is substituted by an
 identical or similar good used as a material in 
the production of another good that is deemed to be
 exported to the territory  of another Party, 
by reason of  
i. 
delivery to a dutyfree shop,  
ii. 
delivery for ship's stores or supplies for ship
s or aircraft, or  
iii. 
delivery  for  use  in  joint  undertakings  of  two 
or  more  of  the  Parties  and  that  will 
subsequently  become  the  property  of  the  Party  into 
whose  territory  the  good  was 
deemed to be exported;  
d.    a  refund  of  customs  duties  by  a  Party  on  a  parti
cular  good  imported  into  its  territory  and 
subsequently exported to the territory of another P
arty, where that refund is granted by reason 
of the failure of such good to conform to sample or
 specification, or by reason of the shipment 
of such good without the consent of the consignee; 
e.    an originating good that is imported into the te
rritory of a Party and is subsequently exported to 
the  territory  of  another  Party,  or  used  as  a  materi
al  in  the  production  of  another  good  that  is 
subsequently  exported  to  the  territory  of  another  P
arty,  or  is  substituted  by  an  identical  or 
similar good used as a material in the production o
f another good that is subsequently exported 
to the territory of another Party; or  
f.     a good set out in Annex 303.6.  
7.  Except  for  paragraph  2(d),  this  Article  shall  ap
ply  as  of  the  date  set  out  in  each  Party's  Section 
of 
Annex 303.7. 
8.  Notwithstanding  any  other  provision  of  this  Arti
cle  and  except  as  specifically  provided  in  Annex 
303.8,  no  Party  may  refund  the  amount  of  customs  du
ties  paid,  or  waive  or  reduce  the  amount  of 
customs  duties  owed,  on  a  non-originating  good  prov
ided  for  in  item  8540.11.aa  (color  cathode-ray 
television  picture  tubes,  including  video  monitor  t
ubes,  with  a  diagonal  exceeding  14  inches)  or 
8540.11.cc  (color  cathode-ray  television  picture  tu
bes  for  high  definition  television,  with  a  diagonal
exceeding 14 inches) that is imported into the Part
y's territory and subsequently exported to the terr
itory 
of  another  Party,  or  is  used  as  a  material  in  the  p
roduction  of  another  good  that  is  subsequently 
exported  to  the  territory  of  another  Party,  or  is  s
ubstituted  by  an  identical  or  similar  good  used  as 
a 
material  in  the  production  of  another  good  that  is 
subsequently  exported  to  the  territory  of  another 
Party. 
9. For purposes of this Article:  
customs duties
 are the customs duties that would be applicable to
 a good entered for consumption in 
the customs territory of a Party if the good were n
ot exported to the territory of another party; 
identical or similar goods
 means "identical or similar goods" as defined in A
rticle 415 (Rules of Origin 
- Definitions) ; 
material
 means "material" as defined in Article 415; and 
used
 means "used" as defined in Article 415. 
10. For purposes of this Article:  
Where a good referred to by a tariff item number in
 this Article is described in parentheses following
 the 
tariff item number, the description is provided for
 purposes of reference only. 
Article 304: Waiver of Customs Duties
1. Except as set out in Annex 304.1, no Party may a
dopt any new waiver of customs duties, or expand 
with respect to existing recipients or extend to an
y new recipient the application of an existing waiv
er of 
customs  duties,  where  the  waiver  is  conditioned,  ex
plicitly  or  implicitly,  on  the  fulfillment  of  a 
performance requirement. 
2. Except as set out in Annex 304.2, no Party may, 
explicitly or implicitly, condition on the fulfillm
ent of a 
performance requirement the continuation of any exi
sting waiver of customs duties. 
3. If a waiver or a combination of waivers of custo
ms duties granted by a Party with respect to goods 
for 
commercial use by a designated person can be shown 
by another Party to have an adverse impact on 
the  commercial  interests  of  a  person  of  that  Party,
  or  of  a  person  owned  or  controlled  by  a  person  of 
that  Party  that  is  located  in  the  territory  of  the 
Party  granting  the  waiver,  or  on  the  other  Party's 
economy,  the  Party  granting  the  waiver  shall  either
  cease  to  grant  it  or  make  it  generally  available  t
o 
any importer. 
4. This Article shall not apply to measures subject
 to Article 303. 
Article 305: Temporary Admission of Goods
1. Each Party shall grant duty-free temporary admis
sion for:  
a.    professional equipment necessary for carrying ou
t the business activity, trade or profession of a 
business  person  who  qualifies  for  temporary  entry  p
ursuant  to  Chapter  Sixteen  (Temporary 
Entry for Business Persons),  
b.    equipment   for   the   press   or   for   sound   or   televisi
on   broadcasting   and   cinematographic 
equipment,  
c.    goods imported for sports purposes and goods int
ended for display or demonstration, and  
d.    commercial samples and advertising films,  
imported  from  the  territory  of  another  Party,  regar
dless  of  their  origin  and  regardless  of  whether  lik
e, 
directly competitive or substitutable goods are ava
ilable in the territory of the Party. 
2.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  this  Agreement, 
no  Party  may  condition  the  duty-free  temporary 
admission of a good referred to in paragraph 1(a), 
(b) or (c), other than to require that such good:  
a.    be imported by a national or resident of another
 Party who seeks temporary entry;  
b.    be  used  solely  by  or  under  the  personal  supervis
ion  of  such  person  in  the  exercise  of  the 
business activity, trade or profession of that pers
on;  
c.    not be sold or leased while in its territory;  
d.    be accompanied by a bond in an amount no greater
 than 110 percent of the charges that would 
otherwise  be  owed  on  entry  or  final  importation,  or
  by  another  form  of  security,  releasable  on 
exportation  of  the  good,  except  that  a  bond  for  cus
toms  duties  shall  not  be  required  for  an 
originating good;  
e.    be capable of identification when exported;  
f.     be exported on the departure of that person or w
ithin such other period of time as is reasonably 
related to the purpose of the temporary admission; 
and  
g.    be imported in no greater quantity than is reaso
nable for its intended use.  
3.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  this  Agreement, 
no  Party  may  condition  the  duty-free  temporary 
admission of a good referred to in paragraph 1(d), 
other than to require that such good:  
a.    be imported solely for the solicitation of order
s for goods, or services provided from the territor
y, 
of another Party or non-Party;  
b.    not be sold, leased or put to any use other than
 exhibition or demonstration while in its territory
;  
c.    be capable of identification when exported;  
d.    be  exported  within  such  period  as  is  reasonably 
related  to  the  purpose  of  the  temporary 
admission; and  
e.    be imported in no greater quantity than is reaso
nable for its intended use.  
4.  A  Party  may  impose  the  customs  duty  and  any  othe
r  charge  on  a  good  temporarily  admitted  duty-
free  under  paragraph  1  that  would  be  owed  on  entry 
or  final  importation  of  such  good  if  any  condition 
that the Party imposes under paragraph 2 or 3 has n
ot been fulfilled. 
5. Subject to Chapters Eleven (Investment) and Twel
ve (Cross-Border Trade in Services) :  
a.    each Party shall allow a vehicle or container us
ed in international traffic that enters its territo
ry 
from the territory  of another Party to exit  its ter
ritory  on any route that  is reasonably related to 
the economic and prompt departure of such vehicle o
r container;  
b.    no  Party  may  require  any  bond  or  impose  any  pena
lty  or  charge  solely  by  reason  of  any 
difference between the port of entry and the port o
f departure of a vehicle or container;  
c.    no  Party  may  condition  the  release  of  any  obliga
tion,  including  any  bond,  that  it  imposes  in 
respect  of  the  entry  of  a  vehicle  or  container  into
  its  territory  on  its  exit  through  any  particular 
port of departure; and  
d.    no Party may require that the vehicle or carrier
 bringing a container from the territory of another
Party into its territory be the same vehicle or car
rier that takes such container to the territory of 
another Party.  
6. For purposes of paragraph 5, "vehicle" means a t
ruck, a truck tractor, tractor, trailer unit or tra
iler, a 
locomotive, or a railway car or other railroad equi
pment. 
Article 306: Duty-Free Entry of Certain Commercial 
Samples and Printed Advertising Materials
Each  Party  shall  grant  duty-free  entry  to  commercia
l  samples  of  negligible  value,  and  to  printed 
advertising  materials,  imported  from  the  territory 
of  another  Party,  regardless  of  their  origin,  but  m
ay 
require that:  
a.    such  samples  be  imported  solely  for  the  solicita
tion  of  orders  for  goods,  or  services  provided 
from the territory, of another Party or non-Party; 
or  
b.    such advertising materials be imported in packet
s that each contain no more than one copy of 
each  such  material  and  that  neither  such  materials 
nor  packets  form  part  of  a  larger 
consignment.  
Article 307: Goods Re-Entered after Repair or Alter
ation
1.  Except  as  set  out  in  Annex  307.1,  no  Party  may  a
pply  a  customs  duty  to  a  good,  regardless  of  its 
origin,  that  re-enters  its  territory  after  that  goo
d  has  been  exported  from  its  territory  to  the  terri
tory  of 
another Party for repair or alteration, regardless 
of whether such repair or alteration could be perfo
rmed 
in its territory. 
2.  Notwithstanding  Article  303,  no  Party  may  apply 
a  customs  duty  to  a  good,  regardless  of  its  origin,
imported temporarily from the territory of another 
Party for repair or alteration. 
3.  Annex  307.3  applies  to  the  Parties  specified  in 
that  Annex  respecting  the  repair  and  rebuilding  of 
vessels. 
Article 308: Most-Favored-Nation Rates of Duty on C
ertain Goods
1. Annex 308.1 applies to certain automatic data pr
ocessing goods and their parts.  
2. Annex 308.2 applies to certain color television 
tubes. 
3. Each Party shall accord most-favored-nation duty
-free treatment to any local area network apparatus
imported into its territory, and shall consult in a
ccordance with Annex 308.3. 
Section C - Non-Tariff Measures 
Article 309: Import and Export Restrictions
1.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  this  Agreement, 
no  Party  may  adopt  or  maintain  any  prohibition  or 
restriction on the importation of any good of anoth
er Party or on the exportation or sale for export o
f any 
good  destined  for  the  territory  of  another  Party,  e
xcept  in  accordance  with  Article  XI  of  the  GATT, 
including  its  interpretative  notes,  and  to  this  end
  Article  XI  of  the  GATT  and  its  interpretative  note
s,  or 
any equivalent provision of a successor agreement t
o which all Parties are party, are incorporated int
o 
and made a part of this Agreement. 
2. The Parties understand that the GATT rights and 
obligations incorporated by paragraph 1 prohibit, i
n 
any  circumstances  in  which  any  other  form  of  restri
ction  is  prohibited,  export  price  requirements  and,
except as permitted in enforcement of countervailin
g and antidumping orders and undertakings, import 
price requirements. 
3.  In  the  event  that  a  Party  adopts  or  maintains  a 
prohibition  or  restriction  on  the  importation  from 
or 
exportation to a non-Party of a good, nothing in th
is Agreement shall be construed to prevent the Part
y 
from:  
